#summary Everything from downloading the source code to running the aggregator.
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

This document should help you get started with the aggregation service. It provides links to every single step required to set up the rss-toolkit's services.

= Preparation and required software =

  * We assume Linux or BSD environment is used (no support for Windows, although there should be no problems with it).
  * [http://ant.apache.org/ Apache ANT] will be required to compile the sources.
  * [http://subversion.tigris.org/ Subversion] client will be required to fetch the code from the repository.
  * [http://www.postgresql.org/ PostgreSQL] needs to be installed and configured.
  * Java virtual machine, SUN's Java 1.6 or later is recommended.
  * A servlet container such as Jetty (a preconfigured container is included in the distribution).
  * Administrative privileges on the server will be required to set up the service.

= Step by step instructions =

== Get the source code ==
First, check out the source code of rsstoolkit
{{{
svn checkout http://rss-toolkit.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ rss-toolkit
cd rss-toolkit
}}}

== Prepare the database ==

It is assumed you have installed PostgreSQL and can log on to it using an administrative account. See separate Wiki DatabaseSetup page, it provides the details on SQL that needs to be executed to prepare the database. 

== Add URLs of feeds to be monitored and crawled ==

Once the database is ready, add the URLs of RSS and/or Atom feeds to be monitored and aggregated. Note that rss-toolkit is _not_ a Web spider and it will not expand this list, feeds must be added manually to the database.

It is recommended to start with a few feeds, check that everything works as expected and then add more feeds.

{{{
INSERT INTO feeds (title, url) 
  VALUES ('New York Times, Main', 'http://www.nytimes.com/services/xml/rss nyt/HomePage.xml');
INSERT INTO feeds (title, url)
  VALUES ('CNN, Top stories', 'http://rss.cnn.com/rss/cnn_topstories.rss');
INSERT INTO feeds (title, url)
  VALUES ('BBC Europe', 'http://newsrss.bbc.co.uk/rss/newsonline_world_edition/europe/rss.xml');
}}}

== Configure and compile the rss-toolkit ==

rss-toolkit uses dependency injection (Spring) for configuration of its components. We tried to put sensible defaults, but you may be willing to look at the following files and verify that they match your configuration and hardware capabilities:

  * `rsstoolkit-aggregator/web/WEB-INF/ctx-webapp.xml` -- The main Spring wireup. Configures database connection pools (`dataSource` bean), syndication feed parsers, feed  queue, articles collector (`collector.db` bean) and the number of concurrent HTTP threads to use for fetching article content (`aggregator` bean).
  * `jdbc.properties` -- Database connection properties. You may leave this file empty, we will configure database properties via system properties later.
  * `post-cache.config.xml` -- First-level EhCache for detecting duplicates of identical posts.

